Excerpt fro LEs Brown Book's "Live Your Dreams"

Have you ever had the experience of getting in your car, starting it up, pushing the
accelerator to the floor to back out of the driveway—and the car doesn’t move? Then you
realize you’ve got to the emergency brake on and you release it and the car just glides out.
Well, many of us go through life with the brakes on. The brakes of fear, the brakes of
procrastination, the brakes of unworthiness, the brakes of negative thinking. These prevent us
from giving all that we have to give and sharing all that we have to share. You cannot live as
though you have a thousand years to accomplish your goals. You are here today, but you may
be gone tomorrow. Maybe even gone today. It is necessary that you follow your dream TODAY.
One day I talked on the phone about a project to very creative person. Marion was her
name. The next day her husband called to say she dropped dead. I went to visit her husband
the day before her funeral and I helped him go through all of her unfinished dreams. It was
one of the saddest things I have ever had to do. Marion had great talent but she was insecure
about it and those insecurities kept her talents from flourishing.
Marion had written so many things that were never completed or published. All of these
bits of her life were just lying about her office, unfinished and unshared. She had wonderful
stories and profound poems strewn about the house. I remember a play that she had talked of
writing. I found notes on it, but she had never sat down and done it. And so it will never be
written. We all lost out because Marion’s talent was unfilled. Marion’s writing might have
inspired you or me to greater accomplishments or greater understanding. But not now.
How much time do you have left? You don’t know. Marion didn’t know either. Now she is
gone and she had taken her greatness and talents and abilities to the grave with her. Develop
hunger and the sense that you have to use up your time on this plant. Use what you’ve got.
Share whatever you brought into this life.
When you get discouraged—and you will—it takes hunger to develop the courage to try
again and again and never quit. Some people are naturally hungry. Some have hunger
imposed upon them by circumstances. If you are not naturally motivated, you are going to
have to learn how to make yourself hungry. I can help. I’m a GOOD cook.
Cooking Up Hunger
To help you build your hunger, I suggest you try these steps:
Develop hunger by taking responsibility for your life. Know that is it up to you to
accomplish your dreams. Get the feel for this at first by setting small goals and accomplishing
them. Set a goal of walking, jogging or riding a bicycle for a half hour every other day. Do it
for a week and then increase the time. Feel the satisfaction it gives you and notice the effect it
has on your weight and your overall sense of self-control and self-approval. Nobody cares as
much about you and your dream as you do.
Review your goals twice every day. Be focused on achieving them. Reflect on what truly
motivates you.
Develop a sense of urgency in your life. Take action now that will move you toward your
goals. If you want to change jobs, put your résumé together today and mail it out to a
company you would like to work for. Isn’t that a satisfying feeling? Just taking an action like
that makes you feel better about yourself.
Develop courage. Let yourself feel the fears that are holding you back and mentally
push them aside. Afraid of water? Enroll in swimming lessons now. Master that fear.
Remember the Cowardly Lion in The Wizard of Oz? He sang a song to overcome his fears.
COURAGE!
Devote yourself to operating on a massive, relentless scale in order to accomplish your
goals. Instead of making ten sales calls, make fifty and watch the rewards come in.
Develop the conviction that you can accomplish your goal. Your level of belief in
yourself will inevitably manifest itself in what you do.
Read inspirational material such as the biographies of people who overcame great odds
to succeed. If they can do it, you can do it.
Tap into your spiritual awareness and contemplate your mortality. Write your obituary
and predict your accomplishments at the end of life. Are you satisfied with what you put
down? There are few motivations as compelling as the concept that sooner or later death
awaits you. If possible, talk with elderly people who are close to you. Gently ask them what
things they wish they had accomplished. No one wants to die with his or her potential unfilled.
Get acquainted with successful people and ask what drives them and how they achieve
their goals. You will be surprised at how flattered they will be by your attention. Listen to their
idea and experience. Make them your role models.
Develop your communications skills. Take public-speaking courses or courses on
leadership and communication. We live in a society in which these skills are perhaps the most
important of all.
SMILE! Project a positive image. Say “YES!” to your life. A person’s smile reflects how
he or she feels inside. Your smile will give you a positive countenance that will make people
feel comfortable around you. Did you know that the muscles that create a smile trigger a
chemical in the brain that makes you feel good all over? So SMILE! Feel GOOD about your
dreams!
Demons of Distraction
It is important that while you pursue your goals you tune out distractions and selfdefeating
thoughts. Let your hunger for your goals propel you on a dead-ahead course. I had
goals of losing some weight because my blood-pressure level was up and my cholesterol level
was high. When I’m on a diet—or as I prefer to say, “When I am managing my food choices”—
those little diet demons try to take control and sidetrack me.
And all too often, I’m ashamed to say, I give in to them! I am weak in the presence of
edible temptation. I’m the kind of guy who very carefully peels all the skin of his fried chicken,
but then I eat the chicken and the skin, too! Those diet demons are devious.
I really do have to work on my motivation for dieting. I thought I had it going not long
ago when I saw a performance of the Alvin Ailey Dancers. I saw the way women reacted to
those guys up there onstage with their washboard stomachs and I decided I was going to have
a washboard stomach too.
After seeing all those women in the audience making eyes at those skinny guys, I was
MOTIVATED. I went to a fancy sporting-goods and fitness store and bought myself the best
jogging suit they had. I bought some of the best workout shoes. I topped my fitness outfit off
with a state-of-the-art orthopedically approved, ergonomically correct sit-up board.
To make sure I made good use of that sit-up board, I put it right beside my bed so that
could roll out of bed and right onto it and do my three sets of fifty repetitions first thing every
morning.
But it didn’t work! My stomach got fatter instead of flatter! It looked more like an
outboard than a washboard. So I put the sit-up board back into the box and took it right back
to the fitness emporium.
I walked up the salesman and said, “I want my money back; this sit-up board did not
work.”
He looked at the board. He looked at me. He looked at my stomach.
“Did you even get on it?” he asked.
“Yes, every day, and it didn’t work at all,” I said.
“Well, we have never had this happen before,” the sales clerk said.
And I got my money back.
That poor sales clerk. I told him the truth. He just didn’t ask me the right question.
You see, I did get on that sit-up board every morning. He should have asked me what I
did when I got on it.
I ATE ON IT! Buttered pancakes and sweet rolls in the morning! Some sweet-potato pie
at bedtime.
Oh, those diet demons. Every time I try to lose weight they remind me of a story I read
one time. They say, “A skinny guy was hit by a truck and killed. If he’d had a little more
weight, he might have lived. So have a bucket of chicken. Have a barrel of fun. Les!” And I
DO!
That distracting inner voice can be awesome, but if you have true hunger you can stand
up to it—although you may have to stoke that hunger every day with little pep talks about the
importance of your goals. I do that by writing down my most vital goals—obviously, getting in
shape is not yet on the list—and reading them every morning when I get up and again at night
right before I go to bed. That buildings strong hunger.
After I get up in the morning and review my goals I start writing out ideas. (When you
are hungry for your dreams, you have to get up REAL early to get everything done.) I jot down
ideas that might enable me to reach my goals and I try not to judge their merits too much at
first. I just write first and evaluate later. Sometimes I write fifteen or twenty. Some days it is
more difficult than others. “Some days, my most powerful idea is to stay in bed and sleep a
couple more hours.) But I get up because I know that one idea can change your life.
With a powerful hunger for your dreams driving you, you will be surprised at the idea
that will come, at the people you will be able to attract, at the opportunities that will unfold.
You will be able to see things that you won’t believe you couldn’t see before—things that may
have been there right in front of you the whole time.